[{"name":"The Animatronic (Springtrap)","power":"Security Network","powerDesc":"Has two abilities: Security Room teleportation and Fire Axe throw. Security Rooms: uses a network of security room doors scattered around the map for rapid traversal — activating a door teleports him to another security room location. Survivors can hear the animatronic spring activation sound when teleporting. Fire Axe: throws a fire axe in a projectile arc that can injure survivors at range. The axe has a noticeable drop trajectory requiring aim compensation at distance — add-ons can show the trajectory arc. The axe deals a normal hit on contact. Springtrap has below-average base movement speed but compensates with the security room network. Optimal play involves using teleportation to cut off survivors and applying Fire Axe pressure across the map. Add-ons improve teleport speed, axe trajectory, axe damage, or security room cooldown.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Artist","power":"Birds of Torment","powerDesc":"Can summon up to 3 Dire Crows at specific locations (power button to charge and aim, release to place a crow at a point). Crows hover in place and then launch toward a targeted direction. Survivors hit by a crow take a hit and are briefly Hindered. Multiple crows converge on a target for chain damage. Crows can pass through walls. If a survivor is swarmed by enough crows they become injured. Crows can also be placed near generators or hooked survivors as zoning pressure — any survivor interacting nearby gets swarmed. The Artist has long-range map pressure capability. Add-ons increase crow damage, crow speed, number of initial crow charges, or reduce crow setup time.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Blight","power":"Blighted Corruption","powerDesc":"Charges up to 5 Blighted Rush tokens and launches into a rapid sprint (Rush). Colliding with a wall, pallet, or obstacle during Rush activates Lethal Rush — a brief window to perform a powerful lunge attack with extended range. After a Lethal Rush hit, briefly fatigued. Unused Rush tokens carry over. Missing an obstacle during Rush causes fatigue without the attack window. Can chain multiple bounces in sequence (e.g., wall-bounce into a lunge while a survivor rounds a corner). This is one of the highest-skill-ceiling killers — expert Blight players can navigate complex loops by bouncing off walls and trees to cut corners. Add-ons improve turn radius during Rush, increase hit lunge range, grant extra tokens, or apply effects on hit.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Cannibal (Bubba)","power":"Bubba's Chainsaw","powerDesc":"Charges the chainsaw with up to 3 consecutive tokens by tapping the power button — each token charge takes a moment. When the chainsaw activates (after a full charge or manually triggered), Bubba enters a Chainsaw Tantrum — spinning and lunging in a wide area attack that can hit and down multiple survivors at once. The tantrum continues as long as the button is held or until hitting an obstacle (which stuns him). Bumping walls depletes tokens. Survivors hit during the tantrum are instantly downed. Add-ons can increase tantrum duration, reduce charge time, add Mangled/Hemorrhage, or let him move faster during the tantrum.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Cenobite (Pinhead)","power":"Summons of Pain","powerDesc":"Periodically summons a chain hunt — convergence chains that home in on survivors and bind them, interrupting actions and requiring the bound survivor to struggle free. If a survivor is holding the Lament Configuration box, the chain hunt intensifies greatly. The Lament Configuration spawns on the map at match start — survivors who find it must solve a puzzle sequence (similar to a skill check) to suppress the chain hunt. If no survivor picks it up, chains spawn more frequently. The Cenobite can teleport to the box carrier's location. Successfully solving the box puzzle temporarily suppresses chain hunts. Add-ons affect chain speed, chain duration, teleport range to the box, or how quickly the box resets.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Clown","power":"The Afterpiece Tonic","powerDesc":"Throws two types of bottles: Afterpiece Tonic (purple — creates a gas cloud that Intoxicates survivors, causing blurred vision and slowed movement) and Afterpiece Antidote (yellow — creates a gas cloud that speeds up the Clown and cures Intoxication on survivors who enter it). Bottles bounce off surfaces. Survivors in the toxic cloud cough, which makes noise. The Clown can use the antidote cloud himself by walking through it for a speed boost. Carries up to 4 of each bottle type. Intoxicated survivors are easier to catch in chase. Add-ons can change bottle counts, increase gas cloud size, apply Blindness or Hindered, or change how bottles bounce.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Dark Lord (Dracula)","power":"Crimson Dark","powerDesc":"Transforms between three forms: Vampire (base), Wolf, and Bat. Vampire: normal killer with a Hellfire ability — charges and fires pillars of fire in a straight line that zone and injure survivors. Wolf Form: moves at high speed, can track survivors via ground scent trails (scratch marks appear as vivid trails), and performs a powerful lunge attack. Cannot use items or interact in Wolf Form. Bat Form: flies silently at speed, becomes nearly invisible, loses terror radius, can see survivor auras, and can dive-bomb at a survivor to knock them down. Each form has a dedicated cooldown when switching. Mastery involves switching forms situationally — Wolf for map traversal and tracking, Bat for stealth and aura reading, Vampire for zone control. Add-ons improve individual form abilities.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Deathslinger","power":"The Redeemer","powerDesc":"Aims down sights with a speargun and fires a chain-spear at survivors. If it hits, the survivor is chained to the Deathslinger and can be reeled in — reeling brings the survivor close enough for a basic attack (which also applies Deep Wound). Survivors can break the chain by putting a solid obstacle between themselves and the Deathslinger and pulling hard. Breaking the chain stuns the Deathslinger briefly. Missing a shot has a reload time. The spear can be fired through windows and over short obstacles but chains break on solid walls. Has a narrow ADS field of view. Add-ons affect chain strength, reload speed, reel speed, Deep Wound timer, or grant effects on chain break.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Demogorgon","power":"Of The Abyss","powerDesc":"Has two abilities: Portals and Shred. Portals: places up to 6 portals on the ground. Can activate a portal to tunnel through the Upside Down and emerge from any other active portal — survivors near an active portal see it glow and can close it. Shred: charges a leaping lunge attack forward that breaks pallets on contact and puts healthy survivors into injured state or downed if already injured. Shred has more range than a normal attack and can vault over short obstacles. Portals are best placed at generators and hooks. Activating a portal also activates all others briefly, revealing nearby survivors. Add-ons improve portal activation speed, shred range, or portal reveal radius.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Doctor","power":"Carter's Spark","powerDesc":"Has two modes: Punishment Mode (basic attack with extended shock range) and Treatment Mode (hold power to send out shock waves that apply Madness to nearby survivors). Madness has 3 tiers: Madness I causes failed Skill Checks to trigger a scream; Madness II adds illusions of the Doctor and random screams; Madness III forces survivors to perform a Snap Out Of It action to reduce Madness, causes screaming and hallucinations, and prevents healing. Survivors in Madness III near a generator will have harder skill checks. The Doctor has a large terror radius baseline. Add-ons can increase shock range, spread Madness faster, or apply additional effects.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Dredge","power":"Reign of Darkness","powerDesc":"Has two abilities: The Gloaming and Nightfall. Gloaming: leaves a Remnant at current location, then teleports to any locker on the map (faster with add-ons). Can teleport up to 3 times before returning to the Remnant. Survivors near the destination locker are revealed. Survivors can also lock lockers to slow Dredge's teleport. Nightfall: a meter fills over the course of the match — when full, activates Nightfall, plunging the map into near-complete darkness for ~60 seconds. During Nightfall, Dredge's teleport is nearly instant and it loses its terror radius. Survivors use a flashlight-like device (Glenvale Candle) to see in Nightfall. After Nightfall ends there is a cooldown before it can activate again. Add-ons affect teleport speed, Nightfall intensity, locker interaction, or Remnant behavior.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Executioner (Pyramid Head)","power":"Rites of Judgment & Punishment of the Damned","powerDesc":"Has two power modes. Rites of Judgment: holds down power to drag the Great Knife along the ground, carving a trail of Torment on the floor — survivors who walk over trails become Tormented. Punishment of the Damned: charges and fires a long-range projectile attack in a straight line that penetrates walls and terrain, damaging any survivor (or object) it hits. Tormented survivors can be sent to a Cage of Atonement instead of being hooked — Cages bypass hook-related perks (DS, Decisive Strike, Boil Over) and can be placed anywhere on the map. If a Tormented survivor is in the struggle/second hook phase, Pyramid Head can execute them with a special instant mori. His kit rewards planning trails around high-traffic areas and using Punishment to zone or punish pallets.","addons":[]},{"name":"The First (Vecna)","power":"Worldeater","powerDesc":"Has two abilities: Vine Strike and Undergate. Vine Strike: fires a ranged vine attack in an arc that can slow, zone, or injure survivors depending on their Worldeater token count. Each Vine Strike hit grants a token (up to 4). At 4 tokens, the survivor is under the Worldeater effect — the next Vine Strike hit injures them. The Vine Strike can force survivors to dodge into unfavorable positions, making direct hits less important than placement. Undergate: burrows underground and travels quickly beneath the map — emerges at a targeted location. Emerging triggers Worldeater on nearby survivors and has a brief emergence attack window. Undergate has a significant cooldown. Worldeater tokens persist on survivors throughout the match. Add-ons improve vine arc, Undergate speed, token gain rate, or reduce cooldowns.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Ghost Face","power":"Night Shroud","powerDesc":"Activates Night Shroud — becomes Undetectable (no red stain, no terror radius) and can crouch. While in Night Shroud, can Stalk survivors by holding the power button while looking at them. Filling a survivor's stalk meter marks them as Exposed (one-shot) for 45 seconds. Survivors can reveal Ghost Face by looking at him (even through gaps/windows) within a certain distance, canceling Night Shroud. Night Shroud recharges when not active. Can stalk multiple survivors across a match. Add-ons can increase stalk speed, reduce reveal sensitivity, extend Exposed duration, or allow stalking through obstacles.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Ghoul (Tokyo Ghoul)","power":"Kagune Manifestation","powerDesc":"Manifests a kagune (biological weapon appendage) with several attack modes. Basic kagune strike extends melee range. Predatory Slash: charges and releases a high-speed lunge that covers significant distance — can one-shot healthy survivors on full charge. Kagune Wall: creates a temporary barrier of kagune that blocks survivor movement and can damage survivors who run into it. Can also use the kagune to vault over obstacles faster than a normal killer. The kagune charges passively during the match and can be expended for the more powerful attacks. Kaneki has excellent mobility and the kagune's versatility allows for aggressive loop pressure. Add-ons improve Predatory Slash range, kagune charge rate, Wall duration, or apply status effects on hit.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Good Guy (Chucky)","power":"Hidey-Ho Mode & Slice 'n Dice","powerDesc":"Has two power components. Hidey-Ho Mode: activates to become Undetectable and crouch at ground level, hiding behind environmental objects. Chucky is very small and hard to spot in Hidey-Ho. While in Hidey-Ho, builds a Scamper charge — Scamper lets him slide under pallets and through windows instantly without vaulting animations. Slice 'n Dice: charges forward in a leaping lunge attack — on hit, instantly downs a healthy survivor (one-shot). If Slice 'n Dice misses, there's a cooldown. Chucky can also perform Scamper independently during Hidey-Ho to reposition. Chucky's small size means survivors often can't see him approaching at ground level. Add-ons improve lunge range, Scamper speed, Hidey-Ho duration, or apply effects on Slice 'n Dice hit.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Hag","power":"Blackened Catalyst","powerDesc":"Draws Phantasm Traps on the ground by crouching and dragging. When a survivor steps on a trap, a phantom image of the Hag appears and screams — if the Hag is within 40m, she can instantly teleport to that trap location. Survivors can wipe traps with a flashlight or by crouching over them. Up to 10 traps can be active at once; placing an 11th removes the oldest. Traps can be layered around generators, hooks, windows, and pallets for maximum coverage. Add-ons can make traps harder to see, trigger teleport without line of sight, inflict Blindness, or create traps that don't require proximity to teleport.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Hillbilly","power":"Chainsaw Sprint","powerDesc":"Charges the chainsaw and launches into a high-speed sprint. Hitting a survivor with the chainsaw during the sprint instantly puts them in the dying state (one-shot). The sprint can be curved left and right using mouse movement. Overcharging by holding the button too long causes a tantrum (stun). Cannot attack normally during sprint — must rev the saw first. Add-ons can increase speed, reduce overheat, improve turning radius, reduce charge time, or add effects like Mangled. The chainsaw is one of the best map-traversal tools in the game alongside the attack potential.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Houndmaster","power":"The Hunt","powerDesc":"Commands a dog companion named Snug. Can send Snug ahead to scout and patrol a target location (the dog runs there independently). Snug will attack and latch onto any survivor he encounters — a latched survivor is rooted in place temporarily and screams, alerting the Houndmaster. The Houndmaster can then run over to finish the down. Alternatively, can command Snug to guard a specific area (generator, hook). Snug can be sent around one side of a loop while the Houndmaster goes the other, eliminating survivor escape routes. Snug can be stunned/kicked by survivors. After Snug is recalled or stunned, there is a cooldown before he can be deployed again. Add-ons improve Snug's speed, latch duration, patrol range, or reduce the recall cooldown.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Huntress","power":"Hunting Hatchets","powerDesc":"Carries up to 5 hatchets (base). Can wind up and throw hatchets in an arc at survivors — direct hits count as a basic attack hit. Reloads hatchets at lockers (takes a moment). Can throw over pallets and through windows at range. Hatchet trajectory has a slight drop arc. Missed hatchets must be retrieved or a locker reload used. Add-ons can increase hatchet capacity, reduce wind-up time, increase throw speed, grant effects like Hindered on hit, make hatchets glow (harder to dodge), or increase/decrease reload speed. One of the best ranged killers with high skill expression at long range.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Knight","power":"Guardia Compagnia","powerDesc":"Summons one of three AI Guards: the Carnifex (powerful, slow), the Assassin (fast chaser), or the Jailer (good at patrolling). Guards are summoned by the Knight running a patrol path — the Guard then follows that path and attacks survivors it encounters. Alternatively, pressing the power button immediately summons a Guard at the Knight's location. Guards can break pallets, damage generators, and chase survivors. If a Guard hits a survivor while the Knight is nearby, the survivor gets a Hunt applied — a timed chase state where the Guard pursues them aggressively. The Knight can create a two-front assault by sending a Guard one direction while going another. Add-ons improve Guard speed, patrol range, Guard ability cooldowns, or summon duration.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Krasue","power":"Sinister Grace","powerDesc":"Transforms between two forms. Human Form (Burong Sukapat): standard movement, basic attack only, no power attack. Head Form (Krasue): detaches her floating head with trailing entrails — moves faster and more stealthily, reduced terror radius, and can fire a Leech projectile at survivors. The Leech projectile attaches to survivors and drains them, applying a debuff. Leeched survivors can remove the effect by consuming glowing Fungi found at her previous transformation locations. In Head Form, Krasue can injure and down survivors directly. Transformation back to human form resets her fungi locations. The core loop is using Head Form for aggressive chase and pressure, baiting survivors away from fungi to maintain the Leech debuff. Add-ons improve Leech projectile speed, Head Form movement, fungi locations, or Leech debuff effects.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Legion","power":"Feral Frenzy","powerDesc":"Activates Feral Frenzy — sprints at high speed and can hit survivors with Feral Slash, applying Deep Wound (an injury-over-time state that forces survivors to mend or they eventually go down). During Frenzy, hitting a new survivor within a time window refreshes the power and Legion can keep chaining hits across multiple survivors. Hitting the same survivor twice in one Frenzy cancels the power. Mending survivors cancels their healing progress. Legion cannot down survivors during Frenzy — only apply Deep Wound. After Frenzy ends there is a fatigue. Add-ons can increase Frenzy speed, chain hit windows, apply Hemorrhage/Exhaustion, or increase the Deep Wound timer.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Lich","power":"Tome of Torment","powerDesc":"Wields a spell wheel with four spells selected via a radial menu. Fly: levitates and moves rapidly in any direction, passing through obstacles (similar to The Nurse's blink but continuous flight). Finger of Death: fires a long-range projectile that deals two damage states (healthy survivors go directly to dying state). Mage Hand: remotely moves or throws a pallet (can throw pallets at survivors to injure them or block paths). Phylactery: places a cursed artifact on the map — survivors who interact with it are damaged and cursed. Each spell has a cooldown and limited charges. The Lich also has a built-in kill mechanic tied to the Phylactery — if a survivor is killed by it, they are instantly sacrificed. Managing the spell wheel and selecting the right spell for the situation is the core skill expression.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Mastermind (Wesker)","power":"Uroboros Infection","powerDesc":"Dashes forward with a tentacle-lunge (Virulent Bound). If the lunge hits a survivor, grabs them and slams them into the nearest wall or obstacle — this deals damage and applies Uroboros Infection. If the lunge hits a wall/obstacle without a survivor, Wesker still gets a brief recovery with no penalty. Infected survivors gradually become more infected — at full infection, the next successful Virulent Bound grab instantly puts them in the carried state (pickup without downing first). Survivors can use First Aid Spray items to cure infection — but using a spray reveals their aura. Wesker has above-average base movement speed. Add-ons increase tentacle range, infection speed, lunge distance, or slam damage.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Nemesis","power":"T-Virus","powerDesc":"Has a tentacle strike as his power attack — a longer-range whip-like hit that can reach over pallets and through windows. Hitting a survivor with the tentacle applies T-Virus infection (Contamination tier 1). Hitting a Contaminated survivor again injures them (tier 2). At tier 2 Contamination, survivors are injured and can be attacked normally. Survivors can use Vaccine (found in supply boxes scattered by the Nemesis) to cure themselves. The Nemesis also has 2 AI zombies on the map that wander and contaminate/attack survivors they encounter. Zombies can be destroyed by survivors but respawn. As the Nemesis lands hits, his power upgrades — his tentacle gains pallet-breaking ability and increased reach. Add-ons affect zombie behavior, contamination spread, or vaccine count.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Nightmare (Freddy)","power":"Dream Demon","powerDesc":"Survivors gradually fall asleep over time, or immediately upon being hit. Awake survivors cannot hear Freddy's terror radius and see him as a transparent figure. Only sleeping survivors can be hit and damaged. Freddy can place Dream Snares (ground traps that Hinder sleeping survivors) or Dream Pallets (fake pallets that stun sleeping survivors when dropped). Dream Pallets can be detonated by Freddy to injure sleeping survivors in the blast. Awake survivors can be put to sleep faster by failed Skill Checks or interactions. Survivors can wake up by failing Skill Checks intentionally or using alarm clocks around the map. Add-ons modify snare count, sleep speed, or grant additional effects.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Nurse","power":"Spencer's Last Breath","powerDesc":"Charges and blinks forward through any obstacle, wall, or terrain. Can chain up to 2 blinks (base). After blinking, suffers a fatigue period where she cannot attack, blink, or move quickly. Can attack immediately out of a blink before fatigue begins — timing this is the core skill expression. Blink distance scales with charge time. Add-ons can grant a 3rd blink, increase blink distance, reduce fatigue duration, let her see survivor auras post-blink, or apply status effects. The highest skill ceiling killer in the game — mastery allows ignoring all loops, pallets, and windows entirely.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Oni","power":"Yamaoka's Wrath","powerDesc":"Absorbs Blood Orbs dropped by injured survivors to fill the Blood Fury meter. Normal attacks slow rather than injure at first (Oni starts weak). Once Blood Fury is fully charged, activates Demon Dash — a rapid charge across the map. During Demon Dash, can perform a Demon Strike: a devastating one-shot lunge that instantly downs any survivor. Multiple orbs can be collected quickly. The Oni's basic attack also deals a weakened hit (survivors drop orbs but aren't necessarily injured until hit twice). Blood Fury lasts until depleted by a successful Demon Strike or time runs out. Add-ons increase orb generation, dash speed, Demon Strike range, or Blood Fury duration.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Onryo (Sadako)","power":"Deluge of Fear","powerDesc":"Can Manifest (become corporeal/visible and able to attack) or Demanifest (become ghostly and intangible, moving through TVs). TVs are scattered across the map — Sadako can teleport between them while Demanifested. Survivors near an active manifested TV accumulate Condemned stacks over time, or from picking up TVs. At maximum Condemned stacks, the next time a survivor is grabbed or downed, they are instantly Mori'd. Survivors can remove Condemned by picking up VHS tapes scattered around the map and inserting them into TVs, but this takes time. Sadako is relatively slow but the Condemned pressure forces survivors to make decisions. Add-ons increase Condemned stack rate, add TVs, improve teleport speed, or apply effects.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Pig","power":"Jigsaw's Baptism","powerDesc":"Has two components: Ambush Dash and Reverse Bear Traps. Ambush: crouches to reduce terror radius and move silently, then can lunge forward in a fast surprise attack. Reverse Bear Traps: placed on downed survivors' heads — become active once a generator is completed. Trapped survivors must find a Jigsaw Box and remove the trap before the timer runs out or they die. Multiple jigsaw boxes exist but only one per survivor will remove their trap. The Pig starts with 4 traps. Traps DO NOT kill survivors until a generator is completed. Add-ons can increase trap lethality, reduce jigsaw box count, apply additional effects, or improve the ambush dash.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Plague","power":"Vile Purge","powerDesc":"Vomits a stream of infection at survivors and interactable objects. Infected survivors accumulate sickness over time — at full sickness they become injured and cough frequently (making noise). Survivors can cleanse at Pools of Devotion to remove sickness, but this corrupts the pool. Once pools are corrupted, the Plague can drink from them to gain Corrupt Purge — her vomit now directly injures survivors instead of infecting. If no survivors cleanse, the Plague never gets Corrupt Purge but survivors remain injured. Creates a strategic choice: survivors who cleanse power up the Plague; those who don't stay injured. Add-ons affect infection speed, corrupt purge potency, or pool interaction.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Shape (Myers)","power":"Evil Within","powerDesc":"Has three Evil Within (EW) tiers that change his power. EW1: fully Undetectable, very slow movement, reduced lunge. EW2: normal killer stats, standard lunge. EW3: one-shot any healthy survivor, massively extended lunge range, all survivors become Exposed — lasts 60 seconds before dropping back to EW2. Progresses through tiers by Stalking survivors — holding the power button while looking at a visible survivor fills the meter. Add-ons can increase stalk speed, reduce EW3 drain, start at EW2, or grant unique effects like making all survivors Exposed permanently in EW3. A high-stakes stealth-to-burst playstyle.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Singularity","power":"Quantum Instantiation","powerDesc":"Shoots Slipstream biopods from a slime cannon — biopods stick to surfaces or survivors. Survivors hit by a biopod become Slipstreamed. The Singularity can then teleport directly to any Slipstreamed survivor, instantly closing the distance. Survivors can use EMP devices (found in supply caches around the map) to remove Slipstream and destroy nearby biopods. Biopods on walls and floors can also Slipstream survivors who walk past them. While teleporting to a Slipstreamed survivor, the Singularity briefly overclocks — gaining speed and breaking any pallet at the destination. Can also take over biopod camera feeds to remotely view areas of the map. Add-ons increase biopod capacity, teleport speed, or Slipstream duration.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Skull Merchant","power":"Tri-Surveillance (Drones)","powerDesc":"Deploys surveillance drones that hover over an area and scan in a rotating arc. Survivors caught in a drone's scan beam gain a Claw Trap and are revealed to the Skull Merchant via Killer Instinct. Claw Traps reduce survivor movement speed and reveal their location when they sprint. Drones can be placed in Overclock mode (increased scan speed and frequency) for more aggressive coverage. The Skull Merchant can monitor drone feeds remotely and reposition drones. Survivors can hack drones to disable them temporarily using a hacking minigame. Add-ons improve drone scan radius, increase Claw Trap effects, reduce hacking efficiency, or grant information perks.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Spirit","power":"Yamaoka's Haunting","powerDesc":"Activates Phase Walk — her body stays in place (with a humming sound) while she moves independently in a phased state at high speed. While phased, she cannot see survivors directly but can see scratch marks, blood pools, and disturbed environment cues. Survivors cannot see her while phased (only hear a faint sound). After the phase ends she re-emerges at her new location. The gap between where survivors think she is and where she actually is creates extreme mind-game potential. Add-ons can increase phase duration, phase speed, let her see footsteps while phased, extend phase range, or reduce phase cooldown. Very powerful at high skill levels.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Trapper","power":"Bear Traps","powerDesc":"Starts with 2 bear traps equipped and more scattered around the map. Places mechanical bear traps on the ground — survivors who step in them are caught and screech, alerting the Trapper. Caught survivors must wiggle free (or be freed by a teammate) taking 2 attempts solo or 1 with help. The Trapper can reset sprung traps. Traps can be placed in windows, on pallets, in grass, and at generator/hook locations. With add-ons can start with more traps, increase trap sensitivity, or add effects like Blindness or Hindered to caught survivors.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Trickster","power":"Showstopper","powerDesc":"Carries a large supply of blades and can enter a blade-throwing mode. Each blade hit builds the target's Laceration meter — at full Laceration, the survivor is injured. Takes multiple blade hits to injure (roughly 8 base). Each successful hit also charges the Main Event meter. When Main Event activates, Trickster throws blades continuously and rapidly for a set duration without depleting his supply. Blades can be thrown over pallets and through windows at range. The Trickster has a wider terror radius than most killers and slows down while throwing. Add-ons reduce blades needed per Laceration hit, increase blade carry capacity, boost Main Event duration, or apply effects like Hemorrhage.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Twins","power":"Blood Bond","powerDesc":"Can separate Victor from Charlotte by pressing the power button. While Victor is active, Charlotte stands in place. Victor crawls at a semi-fast pace and can leap at survivors — a successful pounce briefly latches onto the survivor, immobilizing them. If Victor successfully latches, Charlotte can be controlled again and run over to finish the down. Victor can be stomped by survivors when latched or if they react quickly after a missed pounce. Victor can be recalled or re-deployed at will. If Victor is destroyed, there is a cooldown before redeployment. Charlotte can still patrol and attack while Victor is deployed separately, effectively creating a two-threat scenario. Add-ons improve Victor's speed, lunge range, or reduce cooldowns.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Unknown","power":"UVX","powerDesc":"Fires a UVX projectile that sticks to a surface or survivor. Survivors hit by UVX directly are Hindered. The projectile then detonates — survivors in the blast radius are Weakened. Weakened survivors take a hit from the next UVX impact. Survivors can remove the Weakened status by looking directly at The Unknown for a brief period (the 'gaze' counter). The Unknown also spawns Hallucinations — phantom copies of itself that appear randomly around the map. Survivors who see a Hallucination and don't look away get the Weakened status. Survivors can destroy Hallucinations by looking at them, but The Unknown can teleport to any active Hallucination. UVX is best used to zone and force movement rather than always for direct hits. Add-ons affect UVX projectile count, Hallucination frequency, teleport speed, or Weakened duration.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Wraith","power":"Wailing Bell","powerDesc":"Rings the Wailing Bell to cloak (become nearly invisible) and gains increased movement speed while cloaked. Cannot attack while cloaked — must uncloak before striking. Uncloaking takes a moment during which a shimmer is visible. Survivors can hear a bell sound when the Wraith cloaks/uncloaks nearby. Add-ons can increase cloak speed, uncloak attack speed, make him fully invisible, reduce terror radius while cloaked, or let him see survivor auras while cloaked. Swift uncloak add-ons are especially powerful for ambush.","addons":[]},{"name":"The Xenomorph","power":"Crawl Tunnel & Tail Attack","powerDesc":"Has a network of underground tunnels accessed via Tunnel Entrances scattered around the map. While underground (Runner Mode), moves quickly, can see generator auras and survivor footprints above, and can emerge anywhere along the tunnel system. Emerging near survivors triggers Killer Instinct briefly. Above ground (Crawler Mode), uses the Tail Attack — a long-range lunge strike that can hit survivors around corners, over obstacles, and has a wider hit arc than a normal attack. Survivors can place Flame Turrets near tunnel exits to blast the Xenomorph when it emerges (dealing damage and forcing it out of Crawler Mode). The Xenomorph must destroy turrets or avoid exits that are guarded. Add-ons improve tunnel speed, tail attack range, or turret resistance.","addons":[]}]